How to Apply
2025 Intake Undergraduate Application Process
GENERAL APPLICATION INFORMATION

You can apply online here: Apply Online OR
Obtain your application by downloading one from this website or from any of the UNZA locations listed below
Complete the application form and attach the relevant documents as stated on the form
Pay the application fee in any of the accounts provided below
PLEASE INDICATE ANY PHYSICAL DISABILITY

Examples of a disability would be blindness, cerebral palsy, deafness, paraplegia, partial hearing, wheelchair use. We need this information in order for us to assist you with your needs; it will not jeopardise your application. 
 

ACADEMIC AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT ACCOUNT DETAILS

(A/C Name : UNZA Registrar's Dept.)

0306506302182 @ ZANACO (ZNCOZMLUXXX)
Ensure that the details of the applicant appear on the deposit slip.
Obtain an official UNZA receipt after you deposit at the bank.

Location of UNZA Provincial Centres

Kabwe - NAPSA Building – Chitanda House
Chipata – Plot 461 corner of Kombe Street / St Ann Road- Adjacent Wildlife Hall
Kitwe - Plot 1467 Kantanta Street, Nkana East, Kitwe
Kasama – No. 7 Milungu Road next to Chambeshi Water and Sewerage Company
Solwezi – Low density area near Solwezi Water Plant
Mansa – Low density Plot 641Opposite Bunda Guest House
Livingstone - Plot 77 Kanyanta Road Livingstone
Mongu - NAPSA Building Room No. 506
Chinsali – Opposite Indo Bank
Lusaka - Customer Service Center at Great East Road Campus 



Undergraduate
Undergraduate Regular and Parallel Programmes
Choose from over 100 available undergraduate programmes with a variety of majors. UNZA has 13 schools on two campuses, offering the degree programmes. Distance learning is an option for school leavers who prefer to study and work, thereby gaining work experience. If you are looking to apply, information is available for new applications, international students, requirements, along with fees and funding.

NOTE

Because the language of instruction at the University of Zambia is English, all candidates for admission are expected to show evidence of proficiency in the English language. A school certificate credit, or ‘O’ level pass, in English language is accepted as satisfying this requirement and is normally demanded.

Application forms can be obtained from the Customer Service Centre, UNZA Great East Road campus, upon payment of a non-refundable application fee of K 150.00 for Zambians or USD 60.00 for non-Zambians. Payment for applications can be made at Standard Chartered Bank. The account name is UNZA Registrars Department and the Account number is 0100110273800. Application forms can also be downloaded from the UNZA website. In this case, the application fee still has to be paid at the bank.


International Students
How to Apply
The exchange programme is done under the terms and conditions set in a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed off between UNZA and a partner University. Usually fees are waived, and students remain enrolled at their home university (and pay their usual fees to the home university). Exchange students are expected to return to the home University, course credits are transferred when appropriate and approved and the student graduates from the home University.

The University of Zambia provides several internationally recognized programmes under 9 schools. Thus students are able to find programmes that are related to their major or minor studies. Presentations of each department and list of courses can be found in the course cataloque.

The application process for exchange programmes starts from the international office of student’s home university, where more information on the application process is acquired.

Language requirements
The medium of instruction and examination for all programmes at the University of Zambia is English. Students admitted to the University of Zambia are expected to be proficient in English Language. You do not need to submit evidence of your English Language proficiency when you make your application to UNZA. Nevertheless, if you have already achieved the required grade and qualification in English language, please attach your grade/qualification along with your other qualifications.

Student admitted to the University may address any foreign language deficiency by taking English language courses to meet the beginning level of proficiency. The University of Zambia offers three (3) level of English language proficiency courses, starting with the beginners elementary level to intermediate and advanced levels. For Complete details on the language proficiency contact the Head of Department of Literature and Languages on email.

head-litandlan@unza.zm

Accommodation
UNZA allocates private apartments, which are offered for International Students on short term exchange programmes. Exchange students are accommodated in shared rooms, which are contained with a bed, a toilet, a bath-tub and a stove. The distance from the exchange students’ residence to the main campus is approximately 500m.

Exchange Students who wish to find their own source or other alternatives for accommodation during their study at the University of Zambia are free to do so. Nevertheless, this might be subject to inspection by relevant University of Zambia authorities so as to ensure that appropriate standards are adhered to.

Immigration Permits and Fees Procedures
For clients applying for residence, diplomatic, spouse, visiting, study, temporary, employment, cross border as well as visas.

Guiding principles in the issuance of permits and visas
The department’s immigration’ policy is based on the following four (4) principles;

An immigrant to Zambia must have a contribution to make in form of skills, profession or capital
An immigrant should not deprive a Zambian of employment
An immigrant should not be a charge on the state.
An immigrant intending to settle in Zambia must be in possession of a permit.
VISA Requirements
Please make sure if you require a visa to enter the country. Should you need a visa,please apply for an entry visa at the Zambian Embassy/ High Commission in your country immediately.

Study Permit
This permit is offered to a foreign national who intends to study on full time basis at a Zambian educational institution. Study permit application requirements

Application form
Two recent passport size photos
Photocopy of current passport
Photocopy of current visa
Letter of acceptance from the Institution/School
Status of the host, parent, or guardian if any;
Proof of commitment from the sponsor (Certification of Scholarship)
Medical report from the UNZA Clinic
Covering letter from the Dean of Students to the Director- General of Immigration
Payment of a prescribed fee (Bank Manager Certified Cheque)
Permit fees
Permit Type	Issuance	Extension	Duplicate     
   Study Permit	     K750	K1,000	K750
Checklist
Immigration Requirements
Fill in the Immigration Application form and submit together with the photocopy of the acceptance letter to the Dean of Students. (Requesting for the cover letter for the Director-General of Immigration)
Obtaining a medical certificate at UNZA clinic (or any recognized health institute within Zambia). Fee of medicals at the UNZA Clinic K150.
Submit the prescribed fee in the bank and request a bank certified cheque.
Note: In terms of getting a cheque, most banks in Zambia require you to hold a bank account in the same bank. Bank of China is an exception to this. Notice to be prepared to carry cash to pay for proceeding the cheque (approx. K200-300).
Submit to Immigration Office the application form upon receiving the cover letter and the medical certificate and all the required documents for the study permit. You can find the list of required documents attached.
Remember to carry your passport with you throughout the immigration process
UNZA Registration
Submit copy of your passport and acceptance letter to the International Link Office. Interlink will forward your documents for the registration.
Submit list of your selected courses to the International Link Office. Interlink will forward your course list for the course registration.
Obtaining the Student Identification Card.
From International Link Office you will get a document, which proves that you are an exchange student and due to that entitled to have Student Identification Card without any payment. Present this document with medical certificate, acceptance letter and copy of passport to the reception of the library for the procedure of the card.

Institute of Distance Education
Announcement
Calling on all newly enrolled Institute of Distance Education (IDE) Students

Online Registration Guidelines for the October 2022 intake is now available.

Follow the Guideline and register now using the link below

https://drive.google.com/.../19l15NwFfmgHgo8FFLRk.../view...

You do not need to travel to Lusaka for purposes of Registration.

Register now in the comfort of your home.

For More information call IDE

Customer Service +260 978772249 (calls only)

Lusaka Accounts +260 772832486 (Calls and WhatsApp)

Lusaka Registry +260 772832487 (calls and WhatsApp)

You can now enroll for the following courses in these Schools:

Agricultural Sciences:
Agricultural Economics and Extension Education
Animal Sciences
Food Science and Nutrition
Soil Sciences
Education
 
Engineering
Agricultural Engineering
Civil and Environment Engineering
Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Health Sciences
Biomedical Sciences
Humanities
Population Studies Monitoring and Evaluation Centre of Excellence
Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation for Programs, Projects and Policies (PM&E) and Data Analysis
Quantitative and Qualitative Data Analysis
Monitoring and Evaluation
Forensic and Criminal Investigations Psychology
Population Studies
Social Work and Sociology
Mines
Metallurgry and Material Processing
Center for Information and Communications Technology (CICT)
Professional & Skill Based Courses (Second Quarter 2023)
Special Computer Training Progammes


Accommodation
The University has accommodation for 3,294 students at the Main Campus and for 442 at the Ridgeway Campus. Accommodation is on a shared basis with two students occupying each study room. The University does not provide quarters for married students nor does it provide quarters for student parents with babies. Students who are married or are parents with babies must, therefore, make arrangements for the accommodation of their families outside the University. The University does not guarantee accommodation for every student. This is so because the total student enrollment each academic year exceeds the available hostel accommodation; not all students can be given residential accommodation on campus. The hostels are organised into a number of halls of residence. Residents in each hall elect a representative each year to run the day-to-day governance and to deal with minor organisational and disciplinary problems that involve members of the hall. Each hall of residence is manned on a 24-hour basis by hall attendants, whose duty is to assist students with any immediate residential problems.

Hostels

Exchange Student Accommodation:

UNZA allocates private apartments, which are offered for International Students on short term exchange programmes. Exchange students are accommodated in shared rooms, which are contained with a bed, a toilet, a bath-tub and a stove. The distance from the exchange students’ residence to the main campus is approximately 500m.

Exchange Students who wish to find their own source or other alternatives for accommodation during their study at the University of Zambia are free to do so. Nevertheless, this might be subject to inspection by relevant University of Zambia authorities so as to ensure that appropriate standards are adhered to.

About the University
The University of Zambia (UNZA) was established by Act of Parliament No. 66 of 1965. The first intake of students took place on 17th March 1966. The motto of the University, SERVICE AND EXCELLENCE has guided the development of the University since its inception.

UNZA is situated in Lusaka on two campuses. The main campus is the Great East Road Campus and it is situated on the Great East Road, 6km from the town center. The other campus is the Ridgeway Campus catering for the Medical School. It is situated on John Mbita Road, 4km South East of Lusaka, opposite the University Teaching Hospital.

History
Some thought had been given in the early 1950s to the establishment of a University college in Lusaka, but such proposals as there may have been abandoned in 1953 with the creation of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland and the related political decision to establish a University college in Salisbury (now Harare). Almost ten years were to pass before the question of a University for the then Northern Rhodesia was formally re-opened. This was done by the government which came into power in December 1962, and which for the first time consisted of a majority from the two nationalist parties, the United National Independence Party and the African National Congress. In March 1963, this Government appointed a Commission under the Chairmanship of Sir John Lockwood, a former Vice-Chancellor of the University of London, to advise on the development of a University. In its report, which was submitted in November 1963, the Lockwood Commission unanimously recommended the establishment of a University in Lusaka.
 
University of Zambia

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Coordinates: 15°23′41″S 28°19′56″E
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The University of Zambia

Motto	Service and Excellence
Type	Public
Established	12 July 1966; 57 years ago
Endowment	$35.81 million (2015)[1]
Chancellor	Ngwira Lackson
Vice-Chancellor	Prof. Mundia Muya
Academic staff	879
Administrative staff	1,621
Students	30,000
Undergraduates	28,000
Postgraduates	2,000
Location	Lusaka, Zambia
Campus	2 urban campuses
Nickname	UNZA
Affiliations	AAU, ACU, HEA
Website	www.unza.zm
The University of Zambia (UNZA) is a public university located in Lusaka, Zambia. It is Zambia's largest and oldest learning institution. The university was established in 1965 and officially opened to the public on 12 July 1966. The language of instruction is English.[2]

History
The beginnings of UNZA can be traced back to before the Second World War when the idea to establish a University in Northern Rhodesia was conceived. However, plans were halted when the war broke out and only revived after. The colonial government instituted plans to set up a Central African University College, for Africa, due to the development of higher education institutions in most parts of Africa.[citation needed]

The Central Africa council (CAC) appointed a committee to investigate requirements for a college for higher education and, it subsequently recommended that a college for higher education be established. A subsequent investigation into the need for higher education for Africans in Central Africa was conducted by Sir Alexander Carr-Saunders in 1952, with a follow-up report submitted in March 1953. The Southern Rhodesia Government accepted the establishment of a multi-racial University College and the commission consequently recommended that an institution be established in Salisbury. However, a minority report written by Alexander Kerr, provided a counter argument suggesting that the establishment of a higher education institution on the basis of equality between races was not feasible and thus recommended that a university for non-Europeans be established in Lusaka.[citation needed]

The political climate, as a result of the independence struggle, in the late 1950s and early 1960s made the idea of an all-inclusive University College of Rhodesia less attractive. As a result, plans to solicit support for the establishment of a higher education institution in Lusaka were initiated. In March 1963, the new Northern Rhodesia Government appointed a commission, the Lockwood Commission, led by Sir John Lockwood to assess the feasibility of setting up a university for Northern Rhodesia. The commission placed a lot of emphasis on autonomy and thus recommended the establishment of a university with no ties with already established universities in Britain. The report also recommended the establishment of the University of Zambia as a full-fledged university from the onset.[citation needed]

A Provisional Council of the University of Zambia was put in place after enactment of the University of Zambia Act, 1965. In July 1965, Douglas G. Anglin was appointed Vice Chancellor and, in October 1965, President Kenneth David Kaunda gave the assent of Act no 66 of the 1965 act.[3]

The University of Zambia was inaugurated on 13 July 1966 following the appointment of President Kenneth David Kaunda as the first Chancellor on 12 July 1966.

Following his release from prison South African anti-apartheid revolutionary and political leader Nelson Mandela addressed students at the University of Zambia in February of 1990 in his first trip abroad and first university speech since his release.[4]

The School of Veterinary Medicine was awarded the Japanese Foreign Minister’s Commendation for their contributions to promotion of international cooperation in the technical cooperation field on December 1, 2020.[5][6]

Campus

University of Zambia as seen from the School of Education
Its main campus, the Great East Road Campus, is along the Great East Road, about 7 km from the CBD. It also has the Ridgeway Campus also located within Lusaka City at the University Teaching Hospital; this campus houses students pursuing medical and pharmacological courses.[7]


University of Zambia School of Mines front view

University of Zambia Multi-Purpose Teaching and Learning Centre foundation stone
Organisation
The University of Zambia has over 157 undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes. The University of Zambia is divided into the following faculties:

School of Agricultural Sciences[8]

Agricultural Economics and Extension Education
Animal Science
Food Science and Nutrition
Plant Science
Soil Science
School of Engineering[9]


University of Zambia School of Engineering

University of Zambia bus, 2024.
Agricultural Engineering
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Geomatic Engineering
School of Education[10]

Adult Education and Extension Studies
Advisory Unit For Colleges Of Education
Educational Administration and Policy Studies
Educational Psychology, Sociology and Special Education
Library and Information Science[11]
Language and Social Sciences
Mathematics and Science Education
Primary Education[12]
Religious Studies
School of Humanities and Social Sciences[13]

Development Studies
Economics
History
Political and Administrative Studies
Population Studies
Psychology
Philosophy and Applied Ethics
Media and Communication Studies (formerly Mass Communication)
Literature and Language
Gender Studies
Social Work and Sociology
School of Law[14]

Public Law
Private Law
School of Mines[15]

Geology
Mining Engineering
Metallurgy and Material Processing
School of Medicine[16]

Anatomy
Biomedical Sciences
Physiological Sciences
Nursing Sciences
Medical Education Development
Obstetrics and Gynaecology
Paediatrics and Child Health
Pathology and Microbiology
Pharmacy
Physiotherapy
Psychiatry
Public Health
Surgery
Internal Medicine
School of Natural Sciences[17]

Biological Sciences
Chemistry
Mathematics and Statistics
Physics
Geography
Computer Studies
School of Veterinary Medicine[18]

Biomedical Studies
Clinical Studies
Disease Control
Para-Clinical Studies
Central Services and Supply
Graduate School of Business[19]

Business Administration
Masters in Business Administration
Research
The Institute of Economic and Social Research.
The University of Zambia Library.
The Institute of Distance Education
Affiliations
UNZA is a member of the Association of African Universities, the Association of Commonwealth Universities, and the International Association of Universities.[citation needed]

Notable people
Main article: List of University of Zambia people
Edgar Lungu, 6th President of the Republic of Zambia
Edgar Lungu, 6th President of the Republic of Zambia
 
Levy Mwanawasa, 3rd President of the Republic of Zambia
Levy Mwanawasa, 3rd President of the Republic of Zambia
 
Inonge Wina, 13th Vice President of the Republic of Zambia
Inonge Wina, 13th Vice President of the Republic of Zambia
 
Ireen Mambilima, 7th Chief Justice of the Republic of Zambia
Ireen Mambilima, 7th Chief Justice of the Republic of Zambia
 
Emmerson Mnangagwa, 3rd President of the Republic of Zimbabwe
Emmerson Mnangagwa, 3rd President of the Republic of Zimbabwe
 
Hakainde Hichilema, 7th President of the Republic of Zambia
Hakainde Hichilema, 7th President of the Republic of Zambia